# Client_Server_Dev_Project
This repository represents the work done for a Dahsboard project that utilizes the concepts of Client/Server Development.

1. How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?

One way to write programs that achieve maintainability, readability and adaptibility is by adhering to a consistent coding style that meets the expectations of established standards. By doing this, I'd be writing code that is understood universally by others and allows for the easy detection of errors within a program. Another way to accomplish maintainability, readability and adaptibility is through incorporating user feedback and user stories. By prioritizing user feedback and user stories, programmers are can center the programs design on these needs, rather than to have a loose idea of what they aim to achieve. Lastly, to write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable for users by focusing on creating simplistic and modular operations to regulate these considerations, hence utitilizing the CRUD methodology for development. Utilizing the CRUD methodology helped to connect functionalities with the database without knowing the all details about it. CRUD also allowed for seamless integration for the front-end develop due to the ability of reusing CRUD operations. 

One advantage of working with is CRUD is that offers modularity within the program. With modularity, programmers are able to modify parts of a system without directly effecting the entire script. Which prevents confusion and promotes efficiency in writing programs in the long-run of a software's lifespan. Another advantage of working with CRUD is that it provides a standardized structure. With a standardized structure, it makes it easier for users to adapt to the way the code is structured and used, ultimately simplifying troubleshooting and updating code. Lastly, this CRUD Python module can be used in the future to develop content management websites. This due to how the basic functionality of content management websites mimics the functions of create, read, update and delete in a database management. 
   
2. How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?

As a computer scientist, the first thing I do to approach a problem is to read and understand the type of error I'm getting in my code. Once, I've found the error, I would try research this issue on the internet to see any possible solutions that can help me. Once I've found that seems suitable, I would apply it to my program. Though, before executing it, I would develop a test case to ensure if the problem has been fixed. If the test is successful, then I would run the program. My approach to this project was definetly different from previous assignments, as I felt as though there was defenitely a lot of research involved and a lot of trial and error. However, I enjoyed spending many hours doing this because it I felt as though as able to absorb great understanding of how I should handle developing front-end and back-end applications with the client in mind. One technique I should use in the future is writing pseduocode, as it will build a good idea of what I need to do for my program, which would help ensure efficiency when writing code. Another technique I will make sure to utilize going forward is to consider different approaches to solving problems because of the way many problems can be solved through not just one solution. Thus, I'll continue to be explorative in future software projects.


3. What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?

Computer scientist write and analyze computer programs, systems, software and algorithms for the purpose of solving problems for businesses and consumers. This matters because it allows for the innovation and growth in various industries that benefit the general public. Thus, shaping up the potential for the future of our society. Also, my work in developing a software focused on database management can help companies such as Grazioso Salvare by developing functions that enable accessibility and usability for the clients. They are also specialized in optimizing the best algorithms for security, performance and maintainability to ensure the best service possible for the clients. 
